[New] Add proposal for `hlsl` namespace (#49)
hlsl-tc57/tc57: proposals/NNNN-hlsl-namespace.md

---
title: NNNN - HLSL Namespace
params:
    authors:
    - llvm-beanz: Chris Bieneman
    sponsors:
    - llvm-beanz: Chris Bieneman
    status: Under Consideration
---

## Introduction

Following conventions of other languages HLSL data types should be moved into a
namespace so that they can be disambiguated.

## Motivation

As HLSL is evolving to be more source compatible with C++, some HLSL names will
begin to conflict with C++ names which mean very different things (i.e.
`vector`) and other names which have subtly different usage (i.e. `sin` vs
`sinf`). Moving HLSL library functionality into a namespace removes the
ambiguity and will prevent common errors in the future as HLSL becomes more
C++-like.

We have also received requests in the past to allow developers to
define their own versions of built-in functions. Moving the built-in versions
into a namespace will enable this use case as well.

## Proposed solution

Each HLSL data type and builtin function will be moved from global scope to the
`hlsl` namespace. This can be implemented in the AST construction, HLSL headers,
and other lookup hooks. This would apply to all built-in types (`vector`,

> `matrix`, `Texture*`, `Buffer`, etc), as well as to their typedefs (`float3`,

Reviewer: I actually preferred @bogner's suggestion 
```suggestion
`matrix`, textures, buffers, etc), as well as to their typedefs (`float3`,
```

---
title: NNNN - HLSL Namespace
params:
    authors:
    - llvm-beanz: Chris Bieneman
    sponsors:
    - llvm-beanz: Chris Bieneman
    status: Under Consideration
---

* Planned Version: 202y

## Introduction

Following conventions of other languages HLSL data types should be moved into a
namespace so that they can be disambiguated.

## Motivation

As HLSL is evolving to be more source compatible with C++, some HLSL names will
begin to conflict with C++ names which mean very different things (i.e.
`vector`) and other names which have subtly different usage (i.e. `sin` vs
`sinf`). Moving HLSL library functionality into a namespace removes the
ambiguity and will prevent common errors in the future as HLSL becomes more
C++-like.

We have also received requests in the past to allow developers to
define their own versions of built-in functions. Moving the built-in versions
into a namespace will enable this use case as well.

## Proposed solution

Each HLSL data type and builtin function will be moved from global scope to the
`hlsl` namespace. This can be implemented in the AST construction, HLSL headers,

> and other lookup hooks. This would apply to all built in types (`vector`,

Reviewer: nit for consistency
```suggestion
and other lookup hooks. This would apply to all built-in types (`vector`,
```

> `matrix`, `Texture`, `Buffer`, etc), as well as to their typedefs (`float3`,

Reviewer: Since I already have two nits, I'll throw this in as well. There isn't actually a type called `Texture`
```suggestion
`matrix`, `Texture*`, `Buffer`, etc), as well as to their typedefs (`float3`,
```

Reviewer 2: I think the asterisk just makes this more confusing. Probably better to drop the teletype text for the categorical ones and say:
> `float3`, `matrix`, textures, buffers, etc

> `float3x3`, etc), and to all builtin functions (`DeviceMemoryBarrier`,

Reviewer: I don't actually have a preference between builtin and built-in
```suggestion
`float3x3`, etc), and to all built-in functions (`DeviceMemoryBarrier`,
```
